US - Quality Engineer - G00561

Job Description
As a Program Quality Engineer (PQE) act as be the quality focal point and main POC as Program Lead working with the customer. Review customer requirements and ensure all are incorporated into build process and adhered to. Program QE would need to be self sufficient, know AS9100/ISO 9001 requirements, understand Space Quality, be a team player, effective communicator, and results driven. 

Performs inspections of product as needed and sets quality assurance requirements for procured materials, materials in process, and finished products. PQE responsibilities consist of contract review and implementation, define material procurement requirements, ensure material conformance, support production operations and audits, create monthly program Quality metrics, create and submit contractual requirements, and support final unit shipments. This is the description of some of the main functions that are led by the Senior Program Quality Engineer. 

Work Schedule: Monday to Friday 8 00 am - 5:00 pm 

ALL OT MUST BE PRE-APPROVED BY HONEYWELL SUPERVISOR BEFORE ANY OT HOURS ARE ACCRUED BY EMPLOYEE 

Opportunity for contract-to-hire based on worker performance, worker attendance and dependability and Honeywells business needs. 

Ensure candidate experience relates to that provided in job description and experience is clearly identifiable on resume for client review 

CANDIDATES MUST BE A U.S. CITIZEN ONLY 

Start date will be moved up as needed in order for selected candidate to start ASAP once on-boarding is completed/clear and final clearance is obtained. Be sure your candidates are available to start right away once on-boarding is complete. 

The minimum level of education required for assignment is a Bachelors Degree. Suppliers should obtain a copy of the candidates highest level of education to avoid delays in on-boarding 

Worker will utilize eCharge for weekly time reporting. Supplier should register in Fieldglass on behalf of worker as he/she will not need access to this system. It is imperative that the registration is completed as soon as possible after receipt of registration invitation. ##### manager is responsible for training worker to utilize eCharge system. 

Work location: Clearwater Plant 3 

Client manager will conduct initial phone interviews then final in-person interviews prior to candidate selection.
