Telecom Operations Engineer

Job Description
Telecom Operations Engineer
Duration: 12 Months
Location: Torrance, CA
 
Position Summary
 
The Operations Telecom Engineer is responsible for maintaining, deploying and supporting Client’s Legacy telecom and IP telephony voice communication infrastructure. He/she must ensure that service is continuous and uninterrupted by proactively identifying and resolving potential issues. He/she must provide Level 2 and Level 3 support and work with the extended Operations Team to lead in rapidly troubleshooting and resolving performance problems, as needed.
 
Responsible for the day-to-day operations of the telecommunications equipment, customer issues and requests, and the telephone infrastructure, including all telecommunication circuits, local and long distance telephone service, the voice mail system, the call center software, and VOIP Session Border Controllers. This individual is also responsible for coordinating multiple resources to perform various maintenance activities as it relates to TDM circuits, VOIP circuits, PBXs and SBC.
 
He/she must work with the IT Operations, VoIP Engineering team, Data Network Engineering team and Telephony Systems/Contact Center Administrators/SMEs to ensure that Voice services, capacity and bandwidth are properly monitored and administered.
Hands on experience with voice, video and unified communications technologies. Should be ok with occasional travel to decommission, install and turn up telecommunication equipment, circuits and end user devices.
 
Reason for contingent headcount?
Operations Engineering
 
What is the project(s) name?
Telecom Engineering Support, Carrier Management, PBX replacement
                   
What are the key objectives for this resource (project summary)?
Troubleshooting telecom issues
Implementing small projects
Configuring systems and end devices per the engineering specifications
Consultation with application support teams
What specific Client departments will they interact with?
Client Voice Network Operations
Network D&E
Call Center Operations
Call Center application delivery teams
Infrastructure Support Teams (Security, Server, Storage)
Application Support Teams
IT Operations
Help Desk
List the position Requirements:
Position includes the following responsibilities:
Maintain, document, and operate telecom solutions
Review and improve current voice\telecom environment
Provide level-2 and Level 3 support for production incidents
Contribute to multi-disciplined teams to deliver modern telecom solutions
Conduct installs of telecom equipment, configuration of network equipment, SBC and telecom equipment.
 
Skills Needed:
 
Must Haves:
Proficient in working with various telecom carriers – Verizon, Level3 etc. to manage Network routing, provisioning and testing T1s and SIP trunks
Oracle SBC \ Acme Packet SBC maintenance experience
Operations experience with Lync 2013 on premise and\or O365 deployments
VOIP\SIP experience with ability to run captures and review logs and troubleshoot problems
Must have at least five years hands-on experience in maintaining digital telephone handsets, PBX equipment, voice mail systems, call center software and wireless telephone systems in a 7/24 large scale environment with a large, diverse user population.
Must be able to work varying shifts and provide afterhours support while on-call
Experience supporting and maintaining an Avaya Definity G3 \S8700\S8300\ S 8400 Systems is required.
Good task management and follow skills to follow up with multiple vendors to troubleshoot complex telecom issues.
Excellent documentation skills
Nice to Have:
Experience in maintaining a Avaya VOIP solution
Experience in maintaining a CISCO VOIP solution