Java Developer

Job Description
Java Developer
Location: Englewood Cliffs NJ 07632
Duration: 12 Months (Contract to Hire)
 
Qualifications:
BS degree or higher in Computer Science with a minimum of 5+ years of relevant, broad engineering experience is required.
Extensive experience in building enterprise level web pages beyond just prototypes.
Experience with various Web-based Technologies, OO Modeling, Middleware, Relational Databases and distributed computing technologies.
Possess expert knowledge in Performance, Scalability, Security, Enterprise System Architecture, and Engineering best practices.
Expertise in all facets of web/application/services development including frontend and backend technologies.
Experience working on large scale, high traffic web sites / applications.
Experience working in media domain is a plus.
Languages and Software Languages : JAVA (Core Java, Multithreading) is a must,
Web Technologies: XML, XSL, JSON, HTML, CSS, OO JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, SOAP and RESTful web services.
Framework & Middleware : MVC Framework like Spring, JPA, Hibernate, Jaxb
Database : RDBMS like MySQL, Oracle, NO SQL databases, ActiveMQ Tools : Git, SVN, Eclipse, Jira
Development Methodologies: Agile development
 
Responsibilities:
The Digital Technology team is seeking a Software Engineer to manage and build software solutions across Digital Platform.
Software engineer (primarily focusing on Backend development) will be responsible for building and managing software solutions for various projects.
This role requires hands-on software development skills, deep technical expertise in web development, especially in developing with core java, spring, hibernate.
Software engineer will be required to provide estimates for his tasks, follow technology best practices, participate and adhere to Technical Design Review Process, Performance metrics/scalability, support integration and release planning activities in addition to being available for level 3 support to triage production issues.
